---
layout: default
title: User Guide
nav_order: 2
---

# User Guide - how to use the e-lab
Through this interactive section of the LifeWatch.be portal users can upload their own data using a standard data format, and choose from several web services, models and applications to process the data.

## Discover webservices 
This page helps you choose the right web services by applying different filters. 

## Discover use cases 


1. Upload your file
To upload your own data files to the e-Lab, you will require a log-in and password. You can obtain these freely by registering here.

Note: without log-in and password you can use a marine or terrestrial demo file to discover the functionalities of the e-Lab.

Prepare your data file for upload. Allowed file types: Plain text [TXT], Plain text [CSV], Excel [XLS] and Excel [XLSX]. 

Note: All web services (except one, see further) require the uploaded data to be in the standard LifeWatch data format, based on and compatible with the OBIS Schema and Darwin Core. In SECTION 2 of this user guide you can find a description of this LifeWatch data format, some examples, and an overview of the required fields for every web service. The only exception is the "Check OBIS file" web service, which requires the uploaded data to be in the OBIS Schema format, instead of the LifeWatch data format.

Click on "Browse" or "Choose file" (depending on your browser) to upload your file. This will open the file explorer on your PC. Select your file.

Heading: use the flag box to indicate whether your first row contains the column names or not.

Column delimiter: select the relevant column delimiter: Tab, Semicolon (;), Comma (,) or Vertical bar (|)

Decimal symbol: select the relevant decimal symbol: Comma (,) or Point (.)

Data format: select "lifewatch" for all web services (except for "Check OBIS file"); only select "obis" for the "Check OBIS file" web service (see above).



 
2. Select web services
Choose the desired web services. Clicking on the "+" next to each category will list the individual web services. In this overview every web service is provided with a short description, source, whether the service is applicable to marine or terrestrial data, and its status. A more extensive description of the web services can be found in SECTION 3 of this user guide.

Services 20140304

 

3. Verify order, change order if necessary and run
The selected web services are shown in the lower part of the screen. In case of multiple web services selected, the order can be changed by dragging the grey bars with the arrows on the left.



 

4. Preview screen
When clicking on "Next", you are redirected to the preview screen. Select the column names from the data format term that correspond to your columns. In the example below a list with coordinates (data file = 2 columns containing latitude and longitude) was uploaded and the requested data service was "Bathymetry Southern Bight of the North Sea". The options "Latitude" and "Longitude" were selected from the data format term.

Preview screen

In the lower section of the preview screen, you can find information about duplicate or missing fields per requested web service.

Duplicate fields can occur in case of concatenated web services: the field is present in the original uploaded data file (the input file), and the field is also generated by a previous web service. Choose the correct field.

 

5. Results
Click "Start". The following message appears: Your results will appear at the top of the results table. The "filename" is the original data file you uploaded. Within the "resultfile" additional columns have been added to the original file, containing information derived from the requested data services. The "resultreport" gives an overview of the requested web services and any errors that might have occurred during the process. These files are linked to your account and can be downloaded for further analysis at any time.
